Installation of the Atari 800 Emulator
--------------------------------------

Firstly, I don't know the legal status of the Atari Operating System
or Atari Basic. I suggest that you obtain the images from the PC Xformer
package (do an archie search on xf25).

The files you need are 'ataribas.rom', 'atarixl.rom' and 'atariosb.rom'.
These files should be either placed under the directory defined by
ATARI_LIBRARY in the Makefile or placed in a directory pointed to
by the ATARI_LIBRARY environment variable at run time. If you obtain
atariosa.rom it should be placed in the same directory.

Note: for case sensitive systems make sure that the filenames and
      directory are all lowercase.

1. X Window Version (Including SUN OpenWindows) on a Unix Platform
2. SVGALIB Version on Linux
3. CURSES version for UNIX
4. Graphical Version for the Amiga
7. BASIC version (No Graphics). Should be straightforward to configure
   for any 32 bit environment supporting ANSI C.

   Note: I don't say 32 bit computer because certain operating systems
   enforce a 16 bit memory model. No prizes are offered for correctly
   identifing the OS in question.

Building the Emulator on a Unix Platform
----------------------------------------

The Makefile is setup so that the emulator will look for its ROM images
from /usr/local/lib/atari. To specify another directory you will have
to define a new value for ATARI_LIBRARY within the Makefile.

make basic
make linux-svga
make x11
make linux-ncurses

Note: The linux-svgalib version must be either run as the root user or the
      executable must be owned by root and have its setuid bit set.

      To enable the program to be run by any user, login as root
      and type:-

	make install-svgalib

	It is set up to install files in /usr/local/bin and the
	man page in /usr/local/man/man1. Edit the makefile if
	you want them elsewhere.

CURSES version for UNIX
-----------------------

Uncomment the relevant section in the Makefile before typing make -
If your using Linux make sure that you uncomment the NCURSES section.

There are three different CURSES configurations stored within the
Makefile. Please read them all and select the correct one. If you
are using Solaris 2 make sure that you add -DSOLARIS2 (This fix
may be required for other system as well - duplicate case values)

Note: You must use a System V Cureses Library. BSD Curses is lacking
      a few functions and will not work (nodelay, attron, attroff,
      keypad and curs_set).

Building the Emulator for VAX/VMS
---------------------------------

This version only support the BASIC text only mode. You will be
able to run programs such as:- DOS 2.5, DOS XL, MAC65 (disk version),
Atari Basic and similar programs.

Note: I have not built this version for a while. Modifications may be
      required to vmsbuild.

To build type @vmsbuild at the command line. I have compiled it with
GNU C 2.6.1 but I don't expect problems with other versions. It
will probably compile OK on VAX C but it will require the appropriate
compilation options to be inserted into vmsbuild.com

atari800 :== $DISK$xxxx:[yyyy]atari800.exe

	where xxxx is the disk the software is on.
	      yyyy is the directory the software is in.

Building the Emulator for the CBM Amiga
---------------------------------------

Compiler: DICE C + GNU C (Lattice C Untried)

There is a separate makefile provided for the Amiga - Makefile.amiga
By default it is setup for use with GCC. If you are using Dice C you
will need to comment out the GCC section and remove the comments from
the Dice section.

For GCC be sure that the C_INCLUDE_PATH environment variable is
pointing to the location of the official Commodore include files
prior to compiling the emulator.

For example:
	setenv C_INCLUDE_PATH /path/of/cbm/includes

By default the Operating System ROMs are expected to be installed in
a directory called 'object' which is a subdirectory under your current
directory. You will probably want to place these files in a more
convienient location. Decide where you want to place the ROMs and
edit the Makefile so that ATARI_LIBRARY points to the directory.

If you are using DICE and dmake the Makefile should be renamed to
DMakefile.

Build the Emulator by typing "make" (GCC) or "dmake" (DICE)
Make sure that the Operating System ROM images have been installed
in the directory defined in ATARI_LIBRARY which is set within the
Makefile.

The emulator executable should be moved into a more convienient
location. If your Amiga has the "man" utility you should copy
the atari800 man page into the man(1) directory.
